# foodbank

Description

Along with the fundamental data types and functions, we implemented a command line interface whereby a user can “enter” (log in to) our food bank as a staff member, donor or recipient.  A staff member is able to view the inventory, inspect the donations that are on hold and also is the only type of user that can close the food bank. A donor is asked for their name and the details of the donation they wish to make, before their item is added to the inventory. If the inventory is full, the item is placed on hold. A recipient is first asked if they have an account with us; if they don’t, we ask for their full name and provide them with a unique ID that they can use to log in to the store. We then attempt to allocate a box of food to them (which should last them roughly a week based on the gram requirements we have used) provided they haven’t visited the food bank within the last 5 days. If they have, we ask them to return in the appropriate number of days. Food allocation revolves around expiry dates and gram requirements. We allocate certain amounts of carbohydrates, protein and fruit and always allocate items with the earliest expiry date first. If there isn’t enough of a particular food type (e.g., we are only stocking 3 fruits when we want to give 7), then we give the recipient the remaining stock and apologise for the incomplete box of food. If a particular type of food doesn’t exist at all, then we tell them that type is unavailable. In the case that the food bank is completely empty, we ask them to return another day. 

The design of the food bank revolves around an inventory structure, which stores stocks of different food items as arrays and also the size of these arrays, along with the donations on hold. Each food item in an array has a unique ID (which each individual instance of the item also uses), the amount of this item available and an array of items consisting of the individual instances of this item. For example, in the carbohydrate stock there may be a food item ‘bread’ with ID 530 and an integer showing that there are 4 loaves of bread available. The food item will then have an array of individual items of bread, each with their own expiry date and nutritional information and ID 530. These individual items are what a user can donate to the food bank. If a user donates an item that the food bank has never stocked before, then a new food item is made and placed in the appropriate food stock array based on its category (carbohydrate, protein or fruit) and the individual item is placed in this food items array of individual products. With this design, we are able to maintain a ‘menu’ of products and as many individual instances of each product as we like. In addition, we are able to add new products to this ‘menu.’ 
 
The command line interface is implemented in the main function. It begins by welcoming the user and asking them if they are a member of staff, donor or recipient. Then, using a while loop, it follows the commands of a user successively until they are finished with the food bank, at which point it begins its line of questioning from the start. We also included the option to input ‘exit’ repeatedly which will essentially retrace your steps backwards towards the ‘home screen,’ eventually terminating the program. 

